+++
title = "Preferred temperature, thermal tolerance, and metabolic response of tegula regina (Stearns, 1892)"
date = "2014-01-01"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["A. Salas", "F. Diaz", "A.D. Re", "C.E. Galindosanchez", "E. Sanchez-Castrejon", "M. Gonzalez", "A. Licea", "A. Sanchez-Zamora", "C. Rosas"]
publication = "In: Journal of Shellfish Research, (33), 1, _pp. 239-246_, https://doi.org/10.2983/035.033.0123"
abstract = "The preferred temperature of Tegula regina was determined in a horizontal thermal gradient with organisms acclimated to 16°C, 19°C, and 22°C using to acute method, with a preferred temperature of 19.7 ± 1.8°C for the day cycle and 18.8 ± 1.2°C for the night cycle. The final preferred temperature determined for marine snails was 19.2 ± 1.5°C. The displacement velocity decreased to an interval from 99.1 cm/h to 62.5 cm/h. During the third hour, when organisms detected the preferred temperature, the velocity diminished gradually from 25.8 cm/h to 7.5 cm/h. Critical temperature maxima (CTMax), which refers to the temperature at which at least 50% of the experimental group displays a loss of attachment, was measured at three acclimation temperatures (16°C, 19°C, and 22°C). At the acclimation temperature (16°C), 50% of the experimental group had an attachment loss at a CTMax of 29.3°C. At a warmer acclimation temperature (22°C), the observed CTMax was 31.2°C. Marine snail oxygen consumption rate increased significantly (P < 0.05, 31%) from 16°C to 22°C."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
