+++
title = "Growth Performance and Transcriptomic Response of Warm-Acclimated Hybrid Abalone Haliotis rufescens (♀) × H. corrugata (♂)"
date = "2021-01-01"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["M.A. Tripp-Valdez", "F. Cicala", "C.E. Galindo-Sanchez", "K.D. Chacon-Ponce", "E. Lopez-Landavery", "F. Diaz", "D. Re-Araujo", "F. {Lafarga-De la Cruz}"]
publication = "In: Marine Biotechnology, (23), 1, _pp. 62-76_, https://doi.org/10.1007/s10126-020-10002-7"
abstract = "Along the Pacific coast of the Baja California Peninsula (Mexico), abalone represents one of the most lucrative fisheries. As wild populations are currently depleted, abalone farm production aims to balance the decreasing populations with the increasing demand. The Mexican abalone aquaculture is almost entirely based on red abalone (Haliotis rufescens). However, the increasing frequency of extreme temperature events is hampering this activity. The use interspecific hybrids can potentially improve abalone culture, as species have differences in their thermal tolerance. Therefore, the hybrid progeny between H. rufescens (♀) and pink abalone H. corrugata (♂), a temperate and a warmer water abalone species, respectively, will naturally support higher temperature. To test this hypothesis, growth rate, mortality and metabolic rate of both pure (RR) and hybrid abalone (RP) were assessed under the H. rufescens’ optimum (18 °C) and thermally stressed (22 °C) conditions. To unveil the molecular pathways involved in the heat response, transcriptional profiling of both crosses was also investigated. At high temperature, we observed constrained growth and survival in RR while RP showed a significant increase in both rates, supporting the improved performance of the hybrid compared. These results match with the transcriptional profiling of hybrids showing higher expression of genes involved in growth and calcification, whereas in the pure red progeny, the transcriptional profile was mainly associated with the regulation of necroptosis process. Our results may contribute to propose new management plans to increase farm abalone production in Baja California. © 2020, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
