+++
title = "Sex-specific role of the optic gland in octopus maya: A transcriptomic analysis"
date = "2022-01-01"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["C. Ventura-Lopez", "L. Lopez-Galindo", "C. Rosas", "E. Sanchez-Castrejon", "P. Galindo-Torres", "C. Pascual", "G. Rodriguez-Fuentes", "O.E. Juarez", "C.E. Galindo-Sanchez"]
publication = "In: General and Comparative Endocrinology, (320), https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ygcen.2022.114000"
abstract = "The optic glands (OG) of cephalopods are a source of molecules associated with the control of reproductive traits and lifecycle events such as sexual maturation, reproductive behavior, feeding, parental care, and senescence. However, little is known about the role of the optic gland in Octopus maya adults during mating and egg laying. RNA sequencing, de novo transcriptome assembly, ubiquity and differential expression analysis were performed. First, we analyzed the expression patterns of transcripts commonly associated with OG regulatory functions to describe their possible role once the maturation of the gonad is complete. The transcriptomic profiles of the optic gland of both sexes were compared with emphasis on the signaling pathways involved in the dimorphism of reproductive traits. Results suggest that in the OG of males, the reproductive condition (mated or non-mated) did not affect the general expression profile. In contrast, more differentially expressed genes were observed in females. In mated females, the mRNA metabolic process and the response to norepinephrine were enriched, suggesting a high cellular activity in preparation for the laying of the embryos. Whereas in egg-laying females, energetic and metabolic processes were the most represented, including the oxidation-reduction process. Finally, the gene expression patterns in senescence females suggest a physiological response to starvation as well as upregulation of genes involved retrotransposon activity. In conclusion, more substantial fluctuations in gene expression were observed in the optic glands of the fertilized females compared to the males. Such differences might be associated with the regulation of the egg-laying and the onset of senescence. © 2022 Elsevier Inc."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
